---
title: "Let's say, hypothetically | Tiếng Anh khoe chữ #1"
date: 2022-07-06T16:26:01+07:00
draft: false
tags: ["english","vocabflex"]
---
>Bài này là mình tự viết dùng từ vựng từ cuốn sổ tay của mình, nên không hề được fact-check (kiểm tra đúng thông tin) hay gì cả. Mục đích chính là để các bạn học tiếng Anh. Các bạn có thể giữ chuột tại chữ gạch chân và phần dịch tiếng Việt sẽ hiện ra như tooltip. **NGHIÊM CẤM TRUYỀN TẢI**.

The [inquisitive](a "tò mò") [nature](a "bản chất") of humanity is to be cherished and [cultivated](a "nuôi dưỡng") in every individual. It is [instrumental](a "quan trọng") in the development of society and will be the [sole driving force](a "động lực duy nhất") that helps us [thrive](a "phát triển") in the [distant future](a "tương lai xa"). It is unclear, however, whether this [flame of aspiration](a "ngọn lửa khát vọng") will ever be [extinguished](a "bị dập tắt"). To answer that, we must investigate what is threatening the survival of humanity's most important [virtue](a "đức hạnh"). The first, and perhaps most obvious, is the appearance of a new kind of content called “Shorts”, which are short clips meant to entertain you for a short while before you move on to the next. An [all-too-familiar](a "quá đỗi quen thuộc") example would be Tiktok. Since its arrival, it has [gained remarkable traction](a "trở nên nổi tiếng nhanh chóng") and is perhaps [known and loved](a "yêu thích") worldwide. As a platform that encourages [short-lived](a "ngắn hạn") trends, it is no wonder why young people are so [drawn to](a "bị cuốn hút") it because of its unique approach to entertainment.


Arguably it is contributing to a rising problem in the world— Laziness. The ability to [hook](a "giữ chân") its user for long hours despite providing them with nothing of value, is a remarkable feature of Tiktok. Why [exert](a "bỏ ra") much [effort](a "công sức") when all that rewarding feeling is already found in these short clips? And if the clips aren't interesting, it just means you haven't landed on the right one, or your feed has not been [personalized](a "cá nhân hóa") yet. [Either way](a "dù gì đi nữa"), you must keep scrolling, and that's easy. We can no longer [discern](a "nhận thức được") what is the subjective “good” we must chase after anymore, because everything we need is in Tiktok. The human [innate](a "bản năng") desire for happiness is now linked to the human innate desire for exerting as least effort as possible. And that is precisely why users keep coming back to Tiktok, because it rewards them for being lazy. But that “feel-good” emotion is far from lasting long. It's an [ephemeral](a "phù du") reward that leaves you feeling empty once you leave it. So you find yourself coming back to Tiktok more often than you think because that realization that you've been wasting your time is scary. But Tiktok can [ward it off](a "đuổi nó đi").


I [do not have an ax to grind with](a "không có gì để phàn nàn với") Tiktok. They too have their virtues only if you use their service [with moderation](a "có chừng mực"). But [glorifying](a "ca ngợi") the [overdose](a "quá liều") of “feel-good” moments sure is one way to [obliterate](a "hủy diệt") your [well-being](a "sức khỏe") in the long run. When your [head is buried in](a "cắm đầu") [mindless](a "vô thức") scrolling for dopamine, once you’re no longer doing it, it can be [likened](a "ví như là") to a drug addict going to [rehabilitation](a "cai nghiện"). You will have to [face the music](a "đối mặt với hậu quả"), the scary truth that you have wasted your life on [petty](a "tầm thường") things that [stripped you off of](a "đánh cắp") your [vision](a "tầm nhìn"), [clarity](a "sự minh bạch"), hopes and dreams [in exchange for](a "để đổi lấy") the [so-called](a "cái gọi là") happiness. But just like a drug addict who successfully rehabilitated. You too, can be given a [new lease of life](a "hy vọng mới"). It's a painful [wake-up call](a "tiếng gọi thức tỉnh") and a painful process to answer that call. But it is never impossible to [pull through](a "vượt qua") and [reclaim](a "giành lại được") the clarity you deserve. In hindsight, you'll be better off and grateful that you've made the effort to change [in the first place](a "ngay từ đầu").

That concluded the first chapter: technology on human nature. The upcoming part is about individuality on human nature.

The next thing to discuss on the list is the growing popularity of “Individuality”, which is the belief that we're all unique and special. There is nothing wrong with being a little [eccentric](a "lạ"), but claiming your uniqueness and [boasting](a "khoe") about it is ironically the trend nowadays. All people are unique. And if everyone claims they’re more unique than the rest, then doesn't it just defeat the purpose of the obvious [premise](a "tiền đề")? The [predicaments](a "vấn đề") that [arise](a "xuất hiện") from this are arguably a lot more serious. [Inflation](a "sự thổi phồng") of one's [ego](a "cái tôi"). The realization that you're different from everyone else can either make you feel [superior](a "giỏi hơn"), [insecure](a "tự ti") or a complicated [dynamic](a "sự kết hợp") between the two. And both [extremes](a "thái cực") are equally terrifying. Knowing that you’re different shouldn't ever cause you to feel [detached](a "tách biệt") from society, but rather part of it that rather appreciates the beauty of uniqueness. It should make you feel [sonder](a "cảm giác khi hiểu ra được cuộc sống của những người xung quanh mình cũng thú vị và đa sắc như của chính mình") and [urge](a "khiến") you to learn and dive into people's minds. More often than not, the most intriguing and thought provoking thing can be found inside of all of us—the [mystifyingly](a "một cách khó hiểu") diverse opinions and feelings we share about the same thing.

But there is a solution. A quick one too. Learn something new. You will [suck](a "làm tệ") and your ego will be beaten. This is not limited to learning a new skill or language. It could even be as to listen to a song from a culture you're not familiar with. It can open up your mind and make you wonder what went on the creator's head when they made it. Learn to be [skeptical](a "hoài nghi")—of your own beliefs. Challenge your beliefs and learn about others’. Learn about the people who aren't like you, so you will build empathy instead of fueling your ego’s [insatiable](a "không thỏa mãn được") need for [validation](a "sự ủng hộ"). You won't always be accepted, and that's the beauty of it. The fact that our beliefs may be different, but there is none that is necessarily better or worse. We are so used to our own voice that we often [dismiss](a "bỏ qua") others’ and [turn a blind eye](a "không quan tâm") their past and the stories they have to tell. In a world where everybody is constantly [in contention for](a "tranh giành") validation, how can you find your voice? You don't. Look at others and use them to [reflect on yourself](a "soi lại bản thân"). 


